README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1>mpvQC</h1>
  <img alt="Logo" src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/47739558?s=200&v=4" width="128" height="128"/>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <img alt="Tests" src="https://github.com/mpvqc/mpvQC/workflows/Tests/badge.svg"/>
  <br>
  <b>libmpv based application for the quick and easy creation of quality control reports of video files</b>
</div>

---

## Dependencies

- Python 3.6 or later
- PyQt5
- [python-mpv](https://github.com/jaseg/python-mpv) (AGPLv3) (already included in this repository)
- [libmpv](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv) (0.29.0 or later)
- [distutils_ui](https://github.com/frispete/distutils_ui) for developing

## Installation

### Windows

For portable Windows binaries please look [here](https://mpvqc.github.io/).

### Linux

For Linux there is a little work required to get the application up and running.  
For Ubuntu 20.04 we have listed all steps [here](docs/dev-environment-setup.md).  
Other distributions behave similarly, but package names vary.

## Keybindings

Keybindings marked with \* cannot be changed.

- `Right click`\*, `e`\*: Open context menu
- `Left double-click`\*, `f`\*: Enter/leave fullscreen mode
- `Left click`, `SPACE`: Play/pause
- `LEFT`, `RIGHT`: Seek backward/forward by exactly 2 seconds
- `Shift+LEFT`, `Shift+RIGHT`: Seek backward/forward by 5 seconds to a keyframe
- `9`, `0`, `Mouse Wheel`: Decrease/increase volume
- `m`: Mute/unmute
- `.`, `,`: Go forward/backward by one frame
- `j`: Cycle through subtitle tracks
- `#`: Cycle through audio tracks
- `Backward button`, `Forward button`: Seek to previous/next chapter
- `s`: Make a screenshot of the unscaled video
- `S`: Make a screenshot of the scaled video
- `b`: Toggle between rendering the subtitles at window resolution and video resolution
- `i`: Display statistics of the currently played video

To change the keybindings, you have to go to `Options --> Edit input.conf...`  
You can use most of the input commands listed [here](https://mpv.io/manual/master/#list-of-input-commands).

Commit message:

Update build system on legacy branch (#54)
Most notable changes:
- CI build (resource compilation on Linux, binaries on Windows)
- Update libmpv to mpv-dev-x86_64-v3-20240121-git-a39f9b6.7z
- Update python-mpv to 1.0.5 (b6ab5a4ab00ee4fff35e50963732bcf87dd5329f)
- Replace distutils build system with a Justfile

When updating xml files that generate the UI, there's now an extra step
required, to update translations. Open the xml file in QtDesigner 
and generate the Python code. Place the 'retranslateUi' function 
manually into the Python file, that loads the xml file.


Individual Commits:
* Load ui files dynamically
* Remove useless tests
* Remove compiled translations
* Update .gitignore
* Remove plural translation
* Use static function for translations
* Fix dynamic loading of ui files
    To update retranslation functions after editing xml, open the xml file in
    QtDesigner and generate the Python code. Place the 'retranslateUi' 
    function manually into the Python file, that loads the xml file.
* Update about dialog
* Remove obsolete distutils
* Fix regex
* Add Justfile
* Rename entry point
* Add basic build script
* Use lrelease instead of lrelease-qt5 command
* Ignore distutils
* Update mpv bindings
      python-mpv: b6ab5a4ab00ee4fff35e50963732bcf87dd5329f
* Package windows build
* Fix build name
* Remove unused files in Windows build
* Refactor qrc file generator
* Update development environment
* Update development workflow
* Update readme
* Use new version of upload / download actions
* Increment version
* Shrink windows artifact size
* Remove qml directory from windows artifact
* Fix looking for updates
* Ignore pull requests
* Fix uploading action
* Enable text interaction and make links clickable

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1>mpvQC</h1>
  <img alt="Logo" src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/47739558?s=200&v=4" width="128" height="128"/>
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <img alt="Tests" src="https://github.com/mpvqc/mpvQC/workflows/Tests/badge.svg"/>
  <br>
  <b>libmpv based application for the quick and easy creation of quality control reports of video files</b>
</div>

---

## Dependencies

- Python 3.6 or later
- PyQt5
- [python-mpv](https://github.com/jaseg/python-mpv) (AGPLv3) (already included in this repository)
- [libmpv](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv) (0.29.0 or later)

## Installation

### Windows

For portable Windows binaries please look [here](https://mpvqc.github.io/).

### Linux

For Linux there is a little work required to get the application up and running which also involves using the terminal.

1. Make sure you have `PyQt5`, and `libmpv` packages installed
1. First download the *release-build-artifact* from the release page
1. Unzip the *release-build-artifact* file
1. Navigate to the unzipped directory and run the following command.
   This will tell mpvQC to store settings and backups in this directory.
   ```shell
   touch portable
   ```
1. Start the application
   ```shell
   python main.py 
   ```

## Keybindings

Keybindings marked with \* cannot be changed.

- `Right click`\*, `e`\*: Open context menu
- `Left double-click`\*, `f`\*: Enter/leave fullscreen mode
- `Left click`, `SPACE`: Play/pause
- `LEFT`, `RIGHT`: Seek backward/forward by exactly 2 seconds
- `Shift+LEFT`, `Shift+RIGHT`: Seek backward/forward by 5 seconds to a keyframe
- `9`, `0`, `Mouse Wheel`: Decrease/increase volume
- `m`: Mute/unmute
- `.`, `,`: Go forward/backward by one frame
- `j`: Cycle through subtitle tracks
- `#`: Cycle through audio tracks
- `Backward button`, `Forward button`: Seek to previous/next chapter
- `s`: Make a screenshot of the unscaled video
- `S`: Make a screenshot of the scaled video
- `b`: Toggle between rendering the subtitles at window resolution and video resolution
- `i`: Display statistics of the currently played video

To change the keybindings, you have to go to `Options --> Edit input.conf...`  
You can use most of the input commands listed [here](https://mpv.io/manual/master/#list-of-input-commands).
